# CodeLeap Network
This project was created with Django 5.1.4 and Python 3.11.4

## Create a virtual environment
Install `pipenv` globally on your computer with:  
```bash
pip install --user pipenv
```  
Run `pipenv install` to create a Python virtual environment for this project and install all dependencies from the `Pipfile`.  
Run 
```bash
pipenv shell
``` 
to activate it.

## Create your environment variables
Create a file named `.env` and fill it as the `.env.example` file indicates.  
Create a secret key by running:  
```bash
python utils/get_secret_key.py
```

## Run Migrations
Run ```python manage.py migrate``` to execute all pending migrations. This project is set to work with SQLite by default, so the database will be created automatically on the folder of your project.

## Create Super User
Run ```python manage.py createsuperuser``` to set an super user admin profile for your application. Follow the steps on the terminal and the user will be created.

## Run the application
Run ```python manage.py runserver``` and the project will be served on a port of your localhost. 

- The index route of the project will direct you to the API documentation generated by Swagger. All routes and endpoints are described and usable there.

- Access the ```/admin``` route and login as the superuser you have created. There you will be able to manage the data for users and posts. 

## Run tests
The tests in this project are managed with Pytest and it's integration with Django. Run ```pytest``` to run all tests.

## Observations
For this implementation of the proposed challenge:
- The `Post` model is fully integrated with the `User` model.
- Only authenticated users can create new posts.
- Only the owners of a post have permission to edit or delete it.
- All posts are visible to any user, authenticated or not, through the `GET` method.

This approach was chosen to add complexity to the project and display my abilities in data association and authentication in general, including the use of JSON Web Tokens for user login.


